doc(getting-started): rework Getting Started documentation (#7380)
dotansimha/graphql-code-generator: website/docs/getting-started/index.mdx

Here are an example of a GraphQL API leveraging GraphQL Code Generator resolvers typings (based on the `schema.graphql` above):

<MDXTabs namespace={`getting-started-back-end-codetabs`}>

<MDXTab label="Apollo Server">

```ts
import { ApolloServer } from "apollo-server";
import { loadDocuments } from "@graphql-tools/load";
import { GraphQLFileLoader } from "@graphql-tools/graphql-file-loader";

import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types';

const typeDefs = await loadDocuments('./schema.graphql', {
    file,
    loaders: [
        new GraphQLFileLoader()
    ]
})

const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Query: {
    // typed resolvers!
  }
}

const server = new ApolloServer({ typeDefs, resolvers });

// The `listen` method launches a web server.
server.listen().then(({ url }) => {
  console.log(`🚀  Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="GraphQL Yoga">

```ts
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/node'
import { loadDocuments } from "@graphql-tools/load";
import { GraphQLFileLoader } from "@graphql-tools/graphql-file-loader";

import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types';

> const typeDefs = await loadDocuments('./schema.graphql', {

Reviewer: I'd use `loadFiles` or just `readFile` from `fs` here(instead of `@graphql-tools/load` and `@graphql-tools/graphql-file-loader` packages. `loadDocuments` has a different purpose actually.

---
id: index
title: Introduction to GraphQL Code Generator
---

> GraphQL Code Generator is a tool that provides a set of plugins that help you get the best out of your GraphQL stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL Code Generator is a plugin-based tool that helps you get the best out of your GraphQL stack.
```

From back-end to front-end, GraphQL Code Generator automates the generation of:

- **Typed Queries, Mutations and, Subscriptions** for React, Vue, Angular, Next.js, Svelte, whether you are using Apollo Client, URQL or, React Query.
- **Typed GraphQL resolvers**, for any Node.js (GraphQL Yoga, GraphQL Modules, TypeGraphQL or Apollo) or Java GraphQL server.

> - **Full-typed Node.js SDKs, Apollo Android** support, and more!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fully-typed Node.js SDKs, Apollo Android** support, and more!
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

----

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## The perfect GraphQL Developer Experience

> To illustrate how GraphQL Code Generator improves your Developer Experience, let's take a look at the front-end and back-end usage of the following schema:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To illustrate how GraphQL Code Generator improves your developer experience, let's take a look at the front-end and back-end usage of the following schema:
```

```graphql
# schema.graphql

type Author {
  id: Int!
  firstName: String!
  lastName: String!
  posts(findTitle: String): [Post]
}

type Post {
  id: Int!
  title: String!
  author: Author
}

type Query {
  posts: [Post]
}
```

> The following sections showcase why GraphQL Code Generator is a game-changer in your GraphQL Stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections showcase why GraphQL Code Generator is a game-changer for your GraphQL Stack.
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

----

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### From the front-end

> Most implementation on client-side without GraphQL Code Generator would query the API as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most client-side implementations without GraphQL Code Generator would query the API as showcased in the following examples:
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="Angular Apollo">

```tsx
const GET_POSTS = gql`
  query Posts {
    posts {
        id
        title
        author {
          id
          firstName
          lastName
        }
    }
  }
`;

interface Post {
  id: string
  title: string
  author?: {
    id: string
    firstName: string
    lastName: string
  }
}

@Component({ /* ... */ })
class PostsComponent implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
  posts: Post[];

  private querySubscription: Subscription;

  ngOnInit() {
    this.querySubscription = this.apollo
      .watchQuery({
        query: GET_POSTS,
      })
      .valueChanges.subscribe(({ data }) => {
        this.posts = data.posts as Post[];
      });
  }
  ngOnDestroy() {
    this.querySubscription.unsubscribe();
  }
}
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="Svelte Apollo">

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { query } from "svelte-apollo";

  const postsQueryDocument = gql`
    query Posts {
      posts {
          id
          title
          author {
            id
            firstName
            lastName
          }
      }
    }
  `

  const posts = query(postsQueryDocument);
</script>

<ul>
    { /* UI */ }
</ul>
```

</MDXTab>

</MDXTabs>

> Not typing or manually maintaining the data-types can lead to many issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manually maintaining the GraphQL operation types or the complete absence of types can lead to many issues:
```

>   - **outdated typing** (regarding the current Schema)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **outdated typing.** (regarding the current Schema) adding a new field selection requires updating the operation types
```

>   - **typos**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **typos** query for fields or arguments that do not exist
```

  - **partial typing** of data (not all Schema&apos;s fields has a corresponding type)

The strength of your front-end application types is based on your data types.
Any mistake on your manually maintained data types ripples in many of your components.

For this reason, automating and generating the typing of your GraphQL operations will both improve the developer
experience and stability of your stack.

> After a few steps to [install](/docs/getting-started/installation) and [configure](/docs/config-reference/codegen-config) GraphQL Code Generator, our front-end code will be fully-typed and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After [installing](/docs/getting-started/installation) and [configuring](/docs/config-reference/codegen-config) GraphQL Code Generator, our front-end code will be fully-typed and
```

> up-to-date as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
up-to-date as the following:
```

  // `data` is typed!

  // ...
}
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="Vue Apollo">

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <!-- UI... -->
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import { usePostQuery } from '../generated/graphql';

export default {
  apollo: usePostQuery({
    // `variables` is properly typed!
    variables: {
      id: 1
    }
  }),
  data () {
    return {
      post: undefined,
    }
  },
};
</script>
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="Angular Apollo">

```tsx
import { PostsGQL, PostsQuery } from './graphql'
//BE SURE TO USE Observable from `rxjs` and not from `@apollo/client/core` when using map
import { Observable } from 'rxjs'
import { map } from 'rxjs/operators'

@Component({ /* ... */ })
export class PostsComponent {
  posts: Observable<PostsQuery['posts']>

  constructor(postsGQL: PostsGQL) {
    this.posts = postsGQL.watch().valueChanges.pipe(map(result => result.data.posts))
  }
}
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="Svelte Apollo">

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { Posts } from "../graphql/generated";

  // `posts` is fully typed, also are `Posts()` options!
  const posts = Posts();
</script>

<ul>
    { /* UI */ }
</ul>
```

</MDXTab>

</MDXTabs>

> Now, with a simple configuration and an npm/yarn script, the front-end developers benefit from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, with simple configuration and an npm/yarn script, a front-end developers benefits from:
```

  - **up-to-date typings**

  - **autocompletion on all queries, mutations and, subscription variables and results**

  - **less boilerplate** (thanks to full code generation such as React hooks generation)

<br />

:::tip How does GraphQL Code Generator work?
More details on the inner working of GraphQL Code Generator are available on [this page](/docs/getting-started/how-does-it-work).
:::

<p>&nbsp;</p>

----

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### To the back-end

Most GraphQL API resolvers remain untyped or wrongly typed which, leads to multiple issues:

> - resolvers not compliant with the Schema definition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- resolvers are not compliant with the schema definition
```

- unhandled scenarios

- typos in the resolvers' function type signature

<br/>

> For this reason, GraphQL Code Generator provides multiple plugins that help automate the generation of resolvers' typings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason, GraphQL Code Generator provides multiple plugins that help you automating the generation of resolvers' typings.
```

> Here are an example of a GraphQL API leveraging GraphQL Code Generator resolvers typings (based on the `schema.graphql` above):

Reviewer 2: Similar to the front-end section it could be nice to also show an example of untyped resolvers.

Author: I feel like the code differences between without and with codegen on the back-end are less visual, therefore, adding code examples like on the front-end is not bringing much.

wdyt?

```ts
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/node'
import { loadDocuments } from "@graphql-tools/load";
import { GraphQLFileLoader } from "@graphql-tools/graphql-file-loader";

import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types';

const typeDefs = await loadDocuments('./schema.graphql', {
    file,
    loaders: [
        new GraphQLFileLoader()
    ]
})

const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Query: {
    // typed resolvers!
  }
}

const server = createServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
})

server.start()
```

</MDXTab>

<MDXTab label="GraphQL Modules">

Given the following structure:

```
- src/
  - modules/
    - user/
      - resolvers.ts
      - typedefs/
        - user.graphql
    - product/
      - resolvers.ts
      - typedefs/
        - product.graphql
```

The User module resolvers would be:

```tsx
// src/modules/user/resolvers.ts
import { UsersModule } from './generated-types/module-types'

export const resolvers: UsersModule.Resolvers = {
  // Here, you can implement only the types and fields defined in your module!
}
```

</MDXTab>

</MDXTabs>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## What's next?

Start by [installing GraphQL Code Generator](/docs/getting-started/installation) in your project.

> Then, you can either read a guide or go over [the list of available plugins](/plugins) to find more plugins that match your needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you can either read a guide or go over [the list of available plugins](/plugins) to find more plugins that satisfy your needs.
```

> If you are having issues, you can reach us this the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are experiencing any issues, you can reach us via the following channels:
```

- Found a bug? [report it in our GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator)

> - Need help or have a question? You can use the live chat box in the corner of the screen, [ask it in our GitHub Discussions page](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/discussions) or [reach us directly in our Discord](http://bit.ly/guild-chat).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Need help or have a question? You can use the live chat box in the corner of the screen, [ask it in our GitHub Discussions page](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/discussions) or [reach out to us directly in our Discord](http://bit.ly/guild-chat).
```
